Now that we understand that data
can have a spatial component to it,
let's talk about data blending
two spatial data sets.
We resort to joining data sets together
based on their spatial components
when there aren't fields that can
be used to join them together.
For instance, if we want to find
out which customers fall within
a store's trade area,
there aren't really any fields
that can be used to join
the customers to the trade area.
So, we do what's called a spatial match.
We use the spatial data
from the customers or
their point locations to
see if they fall within or
intersect the trade area polygon,
represented by the gray area.
In this way, we can also append
fields from the store file
onto the customer file,
like store number.
There are many reasons why you
would want to spatially match data.
For instance, the only way to count
how many customers fall within
a store trade area is to match them,
and assign a store number to them.
Then count the customers
by store number.
By assigning a store
number to each customer,
we could also use this to market
information about that store to them.